
=head1 NAME

checkutf8, check8859, checkascii - character set verification

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This is a family of bit-encoding test tools.

B<checkutf8> tests that a file has valid UTF-8 encoding. The check is
purely based on the the bit patterns, it does not check that the
characters are assigned in any particular Unicode standard.

B<check8859> tests that a file has valid ISO-8859-1 (sometimes called
ISO-LATIN-1) encoding. The check allows US-ASCII control characters
but does not accept the so-called "high-bit control characters"
(octets 128 to 159). That exclusion is one of the best ways to
distinguish a UTF-8 file with very few UTF-8 characters from ISO-8859-1.
This test may work for other ISO-8859-* encodings, too, but is not
tested with them.

B<checkascii> tests that a file has exclusively 7-bit content in every
octet.

Each tool will test a file on standard input or a single named file.
Any error will cause the tool to exit with a value of 1, and on complete
success will exit with a value of 0.

=head1 USAGE

  	checkutf8 [options] [ file ]
  	checkascii [options] [ file ]
  	check8859 [options] [ file ]

Charset selection defaults to the version in the filename: B<checkascii>
checks for US-ASCII, etc; but can be explictly selected:

=over 4

=item *

  -8 --iso-8859-1
  
Use ISO-8859-1 rules.

=item *

  -a --ascii
  
Use ASCII rules.

=item *

  -u --utf-8

Use UTF-8 rules.

=back

Other options that work with all rule modes:

=over 4

=item *

  -c --continue
  
Keeps checking after the first error. Normally this family of tools
only tests until a single character or sequence is invalid and then
exits. Sometimes it is useful to find additional errors in a single
run.

=item *

  -q --quiet  
  
Makes these tools not output information about errors, but merely set
the exit code. Normally these tools to print line and offset value for
where the issue was found.

=item *

  -v --verbose
  
Causes these tools to print not just line and offset value for where
an offending character or sequence starts, but also the line itself
and an simple pointer to the location of the issue.

=item *

  --
  
End of arguments.

=back


These flags will not actually run tests, but merely cause the tools
to print information about themselves:

=over 4

=item *

  --help
  
Prints a brief usage message and exits.

=item *

  --version

Prints a brief version string and exits.

=back

=head1 BUGS

Some people may feel these tools should be able to handle more than
one filename at a time.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2018 by Eli the Bearded / Benjamin Elijah Griffin.
Released under a BSD-style license.

=head1 AUTHOR

Benjamin Elijah Griffin / Eli the Bearded

=cut
